Add docs for JSON/Image Decoding on Main Thread profiling issues (#6513)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/docs/product/issues/issue-details/performance-issues/image-decoding-main-thread/index.mdx

sidebar_order: 30
redirect_from:
  - /product/issues/performance-issues/image-decoding-main-thread/
description: "Learn more about Image Decoding on Main Thread issues and how to diagnose and fix them."
---

The main thread (or UI thread) in a mobile app is responsible for handling all user interaction, and maintaining a feeling of responsiveness requires the app to respond to gestures and taps in real time. When a long running operation blocks the main thread, the app becomes unresponsive, impacting the quality of the user experience.

Decoding a compressed image from a format such as JPEG or PNG into a bitmap can be a long running operation, especially for large images. This issue type is created when we detect a long running image decoding operation on the main thread.

## Detection Criteria

This issue is detected when profiling is enabled, and we detect a function related to image decoding running on the main thread for at least 40ms. This threshold was chosen so that we see the function appear in a sufficient number of samples collected by the profile (~10ms per sample x 4 = ~40ms total) before we detect the issue.

## Function Evidence

> On the issue details page, the **“Function Evidence”** section shows you more details about what caused the issue to be detected, including the following key information:
> 
> - **Transaction Name:** The name of the transaction that the issue was detected on
> - **Suspect function:** The function that triggered the issue detection (in this case, an image decoding function)
> - **Duration:** How long the function took to execute
> - **Sample count:** How many consecutive samples collected by the profiler contained the function
> 
> To view the entire profile associated with the issue, click the **“View Profile”** button:
> 
> ![Image Decoding on Main Thread Function Evidence](image-decoding-function-evidence.png)
> 
> The profile will indicate where the suspect function was called from and the other functions that are called *by* the suspect function:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find additional information about your Image Decoding on Main Thread problem by looking at four main aspects in the "Function Evidence" section:

- **Transaction Name:** The name of the transaction where the issue was detected.
- **Suspect function:** The function that triggered the issue detection (in this case, an image decoding function).
- **Duration:** How long the function took to execute.
- **Sample count:** The number of consecutive samples collected by the profiler that contained the function.

View it by going to the **Issues** page in Sentry, clicking on the issue you want to examine, then scrolling down to the "Function Evidence" section in the "Details" tab. To view the entire profile associated with the issue, click the “View Profile” button:

![Image Decoding on Main Thread Function Evidence](image-decoding-function-evidence.png)

The profile will indicate where the suspect function was called from, along with other functions being called *by* the suspect function:

```

![Image Decoding on Main Thread Profile](image-decoding-profile.png)

## Stack Trace

> The **“Stack Trace”** section shows a full stack trace for where the detected image decoding function was called from:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The “Stack Trace” section shows a full stack trace for where the detected image decoding function was called from:
```

![Image Decoding on Main Thread Stack Trace](image-decoding-stack-trace.png)

## Example

### iOS

> The following code renders an image by setting the `image` property of `UIImageView` . The image is not decoded when `UIImage.init(data:)` is called — the decoding occurs when the image is rendered on screen, which happens on the main thread. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code renders an image by setting the `image` property of `UIImageView` . The image isn't decoded when `UIImage.init(data:)` is called, but when the image is rendered on screen, which happens on the main thread. 
```

```swift
func showImage(data: Data) {
	imageView.image = UIImage(data: data)
}
```

> The performance could be improved by using `[UIImage.preparingForDisplay()](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uiimage/3750834-preparingfordisplay)` to prepare the image for display on a background queue before assigning the image to the image view on the main queue:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Performance could be improved by using `[UIImage.preparingForDisplay()](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uiimage/3750834-preparingfordisplay)` to prepare the image for display on a background queue, before assigning the image to the image view on the main queue:
```

> The performance could be improved by using `[UIImage.preparingForDisplay()](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uiimage/3750834-preparingfordisplay)` to prepare the image for display on a background queue before assigning the image to the image view on the main queue:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Performance could be improved by using `[UIImage.preparingForDisplay()](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uiimage/3750834-preparingfordisplay)` to prepare the image for display on a background queue, before assigning the image to the image view on the main queue:
```

```swift
func showImage(data: Data) {
	DispatchQueue.global(qos: .userInitiated).async {
		let image = UIImage(data: data).preparingForDisplay()
		DispatchQueue.main.async {
			imageView.image = image
		}
	}
}
```

### Android

The following code calls `BitmapFactory.decodeByteArray` on the UI thread to decode an image and render it in an `ImageView`:

```kotlin
fun showImage(data: ByteArray) {
	imageView.setImageBitmap(BitmapFactory.decodeByteArray(data, 0, data.size))
}
```

> The performance could be improved by moving the image decoding to a coroutine:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Performance could be improved by moving the image decoding to a coroutine:
```
